= Jump, a bookmarking system for the bash and zsh shells.

== Introduction

Jump is a tool that allows you to quickly change directories in the bash and zsh
shells using bookmarks. Thanks to Jump, you won't have to type those long
paths anymore. 
Jump was inspired by {go-tool}[http://code.google.com/p/go-tool/] by ActiveState.

== Usage

Say you often work in a directory with a path like
`/Users/giuseppe/Work/Projects/MyProject`. With Jump you can add a bookmark
to it:

    $ jump --add myproject

From now on you can jump to your project just by typing:

    $ jump myproject

You can even append subfolders to the bookmark name!

    $ jump myproject/src/
    
You can take a look at all your bookmarks with the `list` command:

    $ jump --list

To delete a bookmark you don't need anymore, use the `del` command:

    $ jump --del myproject

Don't remember a command? Just type:

    $ jump --help

=== Advanced completion

Suppose you added a bookmark called <i>rails-app</i> pointing to <i>/home/flavio/test/test_app</i>.
The folder contains the following files:
  drwxr-xr-x 6 flavio users  4096 2010-08-10 10:38 app
  drwxr-xr-x 5 flavio users  4096 2010-08-10 10:38 config
  drwxr-xr-x 2 flavio users  4096 2010-08-10 10:38 db
  drwxr-xr-x 2 flavio users  4096 2010-08-10 10:38 doc
  drwxr-xr-x 3 flavio users  4096 2010-08-10 10:38 lib
  drwxr-xr-x 2 flavio users  4096 2010-08-10 10:38 log
  drwxr-xr-x 5 flavio users  4096 2010-08-10 10:38 public
  -rw-r--r-- 1 flavio users   307 2010-08-10 10:38 Rakefile
  -rw-r--r-- 1 flavio users 10011 2010-08-10 10:38 README
  drwxr-xr-x 3 flavio users  4096 2010-08-10 10:38 script
  drwxr-xr-x 7 flavio users  4096 2010-08-10 10:38 test
  drwxr-xr-x 6 flavio users  4096 2010-08-10 10:38 tmp
  drwxr-xr-x 3 flavio users  4096 2010-08-10 10:38 vendor

The following completions are available:
  $ jump ra[TAB]
is expanded to:
  $ jump rails-app

While
  $ jump rails-app/[TAB]
allows to choose between the following completions:
  rails-app/        rails-app/config  rails-app/doc     rails-app/log     rails-app/script  rails-app/tmp
  rails-app/app     rails-app/db      rails-app/lib     rails-app/public  rails-app/test    rails-app/vendor

Typing
  $ jump rails-app/l[TAB]
suggests the following completions:
  rails-app/lib  rails-app/log

Hence
  $ jump rails-app/lo[TAB]
is automatically expanded to
  $ rails-app/log

The advanced completion works out of the box for zsh users.
The bash shell relies on bash_completion.

== Installation

Jump is packaged as a gem:

    $ gem install jump

=== Notes for Debian & Ubuntu users

The rubygem package shipped with Debian & Ubuntu acts in a different way.
Once jump has been installed you have to updated your <i>PATH</i> (unless you
have already done it).

Execute the following command:
  $ gem environment
and take a look at the <i>GEM PATHS</i> section.

You will have something like that:
  - GEM PATHS:
    - /var/lib/gems/1.8
In this case <i>/var/lib/gems/1.8</i> is your <i>GEM PATH</i>.
Add <i>GEM PATH/bin</i> to your <i>PATH</i>.

== Bash integration

=== Using bash-completion (recommended)
It's strongly recommended to install <i>bash_completion</i>. In this way you will have
the best user experience.

Linux users can install it using their package manager (apt, zypper, yum, emerge...)
while OSX users can install it via ports, fink or brew.

Execute the following command once jump has been installed:
  sudo cp `gem contents jump | grep completion` /path_to/bash_completion.d

The <i>bash_completion.d</i> directory is usually located under <i>/etc/</i>.
OSX users will find this directory under fink/port/brew installation directory (e.g. <i>/opt/local/etc</i>).

Note for Ubuntu users: the <tt>gem contents jump</tt> command won't show the
absolute installation path.

All the files shipped with jump can be found under the following path:
  [GEM PATH]/gems/jump-[JUMP VERSION]/
Take a look at the previous section in order to figure out your <i>GEM PATH</i>.

=== Without bash-completion

If you do not want to install <i>bash_completion</i> then execute the following command:
  cp `gem contents jump | grep shell_driver` ~/.jump_shell_driver

and add the following code to your bash configuration file (e.g. <i>~/.bash_profile</i> or <i>~/.bashrc'</i>:

  source ~/.jump_shell_driver

<b>Beware:</b> without bash_completion you won't be able use jump's advanced completion features.

== Zsh integration

After having installed jump execute the following command:
  cp `gem contents jump | grep zsh` ~/.jump_shell_driver

and add the following code to your .zshrc file:

  source ~/.jump_shell_driver

(c) 2010 Flavio Castelli and Giuseppe Capizzi
